% DDISASM(1) DATALOG DISASSEMBLER
% GrammaTech Inc.
% September 2018

# NAME

ddisasm - disassembles binaries and generates assembly code that is ready for reassembly.

# SYNOPSIS

**ddisasm** [*options*...] *BINARY* 

# DESCRIPTION

The datalog disassembler **ddisasm** executable disassembles a binary
*BINARY* and produces *BINARY.gtirb*, an intermediate
representation for binary analysis (See [GTIRB](https://github.com/grammatech/gtirb)).
The [GTIRB pretty printer](https://github.com/grammatech/gtirb-pprinter) may then be
used to pretty print the GTIRB to reassemblable assembly code.

Currently `ddisasm` supports x64 executables in ELF format.


# OPTIONS

-d, --debug
:   print debugging information

-o, --output *FILE*
:   name of the output gtirb file (by default it is (*binary*).gtirb)

-p, --print *FILE*
:	print the assembly code of the binary using the **gtirb-pprinter**

-s, --section *SECTION-NAME*
:   consider the *SECTION-NAME* as a code section for the disassembly. By default
    the following code sections are considered: `.text`, `.plt`,
	`.init`, `.fini`, and `.plt.got`.
	This option allows considering additional sections.

-d, --data-section *SECTION-NAME*
:   consider the *SECTION-NAME* as a data section for the
    disassembly. By default the following  data sections are
    considered: `.got`, `.got.plt`, `.data.rel.ro`, `.init_array`,
    `.fini_array`, `rodata`, `data`, and `.bss`.
    This option allows considering additional sections.

-p, --profile *FILE*
:   generate souffle profiling information into *FILE*. This profiling information
    can be used to generate a report using **souffle-profile**

-V, --verbose *NUM*
:   verbosity level 0-3


# EXAMPLES

**ddisasm** ./examples/ex1/ex

# SEE ALSO

**gtirb-pprinter** (1).
The `gtirb-pprinter` prints gtirb files as assembly code.

**souffle-profile** (1).
`souffle-profile` reads a profiling information file generated by
`ddisasm` and generates graphs and statistics of the different phases of the disassembly.
